---
layout: tutorial
author: Michael McDermott
title: Making a Plan
slug: e2
subhead: Exercise 2
categories: [exercises]
---
#### Exercise 2: Making a Plan
Before jumping straight into the motion part of projects, there needs to be a plan. Part of the plan will be a storyboards that show key moments in the narrative along with thinking about pacing, shot selection, and motion. Another part will be mood boards uses existing imagery to show how the final piece might look and feel. The final part will be concept boards that show flat designs of the specific frames of the finished piece.

For this exercise you and a partner will create a storyboard, mood board, and a concept board for the idea we generated in class. The storyboard should include 20 panels with the first panel being the title of the film and the last panel being the credits (you and your partner's names). The panels in between should tell a cohesive story making any relevant notes and considering all the different shot types we covered. The mood board should consist of at least 5 images that show the look and feel of your film pulled from existing things (films, design, art, photographs, etc.). You can also include some words on this page to describe the mood you are going for. There only needs to be one storyboard and one mood board but each of you in the pair will create your own concept board. The concept board should be your own design for what the title frame would look like. This should be influenced by the narrative shown on the storyboards as well as the images on the mood board.

Pick one of the following ideas for your storyboard:
- Man steals persons wallet
- Stranded on an island
- Not enough money for ice cream
- Walking your dog and ran out of bags

[Download the template for this exercise.]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/files/Plan-Template.pdf)

##### Technical Requirements
* 20 frame storyboard
* First frame is the title frame and the last frame is the credits frame
* 1 mood board with at least 5 images
* 1 concept board showing the title frame of the sequence. This should be done at 1920x1080 then added into the template
* All the above combined into the template

<span class="due">Due Wednesday, {% assign seconds = 2 | times: 24 | times: 60 | times: 60 %}{{ page.date | date: "%s" | plus: seconds | date: "%B %d" }} by 4:30 pm ET</span>
