---
layout: tutorial
author: Michael McDermott
title: Timing, Pacing, Narrative
slug: e3
subhead: Exercise 3
categories: [exercises]
---
#### Exercise 3: Timing, Pacing, Narrative
Use found footage and the provided audio track to create a thirty second teaser trailer for a fictional film. Select clips that will introduce the settings, characters, and other moments of your fictional film that help tell the story. The footage should be thoughtfully curated but it is alright for the footage to be visually inconsistent as long as the teaser generally makes sense. Focus on gathering footage with different kinds of shots (extremely wide to extreme close up) but that all relate to the narrative you are trying to tell. The footage can be found at [pexels.com](https://www.pexels.com/videos/).

Once you have your selection of clips (shoot for around 20 clips initially), start to sequence and time them to the audio track. Keep the pacing of your clips in mind while timing them, some clips will be very short and others will last longer. The variety of pacing will help make the teaser more dynamic. The final teaser also needs to include the title of your fictional film. The title can be placed wherever you feel it belongs in the teaser but should fit in with the audio.

The final video should be exported as an mp4, uploaded to Vimeo, and added to the the Vimeo group. You should also submit your video on Blackboard.

##### Technical Requirements
* Uses full length of provided audio (linked on Blackboard)
* Title somewhere in the video
* Clips timed to audio when appropriate
* Various shot sizes
* Pace varies
* A (potentially very loose) narrative

<span class="due">Due Wednesday, {% assign seconds = 7 | times: 24 | times: 60 | times: 60 %}{{ page.date | date: "%s" | plus: seconds | date: "%B %d" }} by 4:30 pm ET</span>
